>> Bianca: And the way I like to
teach recursion is through something
called the Call Stack Game.
And here are the rules
of the Call Stack Game.
So the first thing is whenever
a function is called,
you push it onto the stack,
then you execute the function body.
The function body is like the thing that
lives between these two parentheses,
an ES5, an ES6,
then it gets a little crazy when people
don't have the parentheses anymore and
then sometimes it's,
>> Bianca: No these aren't
parentheses, I'm sorry.
The brackets, and then sometimes
it's parentheses, craziness.
But anyway you know what I
mean when I say function body.
It's this part.
And then you execute the function body
until another function is called, for
example, this is a function being
called inside of a function body.
If that happens, then you wanna pause the
current execution wherever you are, and
go back to step one.
And you push that function
onto the call stack, and
you execute the new function body.
And then you do that
until another function,
then you keep repeating it, or
until you hit a return statement.
If a return statement is hit, you're going
to pop the current function off the stack
and you will resume executing where you
left off if you left off somewhere else.
So that's the call stack game.
We're going to do it in action,
because maybe it's not as
>> Bianca: So
here we have, I can put our rules too.
I'll put our rules for us so
that we have a reference.
So we have our reference on the left.
And then on the right,
we're gonna have our stack.
Okay, here's our function so
as we are executing this,
are we hitting any of the rules for
the call stack game?
>> Bianca: We're
actually not because we never
get to a function execution.
Se we have to call this function first.
So when we call this function
we push the function.
Whoops.
We push the function on to the call
stack which I wanna put over here.
Here, let me make this JavaScript for you.
Is this big enough?
Okay.
So we pushed on to the call stack and
then we execute the function body
until we hit another function and
then we keep doing it.
So and then we're gonna keep
track of where we left off,
I like to use these squigglies,
and then we keep doing it.
And then we call it here,
gonna put my squigglies.
>> Bianca: That is not a squiggly.
Put my squigglies and
we're gonna keep doing that.
And our Call Stack Game,
the reason that we play this game
is this how your code executes.
This is how it's actually executing
in the order in which it's executing.
You might see that we're in an infinite
loop here so we keep calling and
calling and calling.
We're not returning.
So this is going to go forever.
And it's never even getting
to any of these second calls.
So we're kind of stuck in
this first frame here,
and it's never gonna make it down here.
And so that's really important, lesson one
of recursion and just looping in general,
is you have to return somewhere.
So let's return.
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE] an infinite loop
then, and
browser will just say I'm out of memory.
>> Bianca: Yeah, yeah, so
when you hear the stack overflow,
here's our stack.
If we keep going it will run out of
memory and it overflows and it crashes.
That's a stack overflow.
The next thing we might
do to make this better.
We need to throw a return somewhere.
Why not?
We'll just return here.
Let's see what happens.
Let's play the Call Stack Game again.
So we call this function.
We're going to put it on our stack.
Great.
And then we return.
Call me.
So first this is actually
an important point.
So first we have to call the function.
And.
Then it's gonna keep calling it forever.
So even though we have a return here,
it 's still not quite solving our problem.
So what we need to do is find a way,
for recursion we really want to be
able to loop multiple times,
meet some base case, and return up.
Once we get through our questions here.
Once we get to one person,
we wanna be able to return up and
count all of that together, but
let's look at another example.
See what this is doing.
>> Bianca: So
we're gonna keep doing our Call Stack
Game, so we have a tracker here,
it's a little bit different.
All right, so we need to call it again.
And then we're gonna
pop that function body
here.
>> Bianca: Let's put our global scope
to keep track.
So we're gonna increment this.
This is now one.
Is tracker three, equal to three?
No, so we're not there.
We're gonna keep calling.
So we're gonna call, so
we hit a function location.
We are going to,
>> Bianca: And
I'm gonna mark this because this
is kind of like a global scope.
This is our call stack.
Okay.
So then,
we're going to increment tracker again.
Now it's two.
This doesn't help us,
gonna go call it again.
Increment tracker, it is now three.
We're gonna hit this conditional, and
we're gonna return this value loops.
So again, we hit the return statement.
What do we do?
We have to pop this off the stack.
When we need to continue where
we left off, which was here.
I should have put this.
So, this function
invocation returns loops.
>> Bianca: However,
This function has an implicit return.
When we reach the end of the body,
the function has an implicit return.
It's going to return undefined.
So that's an important
thing to note is that now
this is going to return undefined.
So if we had wanted loops
to be pushed back through
the call stack.
>> Bianca: How might we do
that?
>> Bianca: Let's go back to how we had it.
>> Bianca: Okay, so we return loops.
Here.
So this one was loops, which is
probably what you wanna do, right?
You wanna keep your data.
Now let me pop this off.
So what might we wanna do so that we don't
lose, we don't jump to an implicit return?
What's the other option?
Implicit opposite is?
>> Speaker 2: Explicit.
>> Bianca: Explict.
So we're gonna explicitly
return some value.
What is that value?
The value that this function
return which is loops.
So how we do that is we just
stick a return in there.
So now we just assume that
all of these are the same.
So now when this returns loops,
when this function returns loops,
this function now also returns loops so
we can pop it off.
And this is gonna be returning loops.
And then we pop it off which means down
here this will also return loops.
So that's the way that you
kind of trace the data from
some base case and
get it out of each recursive call.
Do you want me to go through it again or
do you guys feel solid?
So, can I see thumbs on
how we got loops out?
>> Speaker 3: Doesn't it run forever,
though?
Am I missing?
>> Bianca: It doesn't run forever,
because we have a return statement.
Once you hit a return statement
it's gonna exit the function.
So, we hit this return here.
Once this conditional is met this is what
we would call in recursion our base case
which is where the very bottom of where we
want to recurse to, and
this isn't doing anything very important,
this is just saying just recurse
three times and then return loops.
This is what this is doing.
It's not doing anything special and so
you can imagine that you can figure out.
And this is how we reach
our base case right?
So we're incrementing
tracker each time we loop,
we're getting closer to our base case.
If we didn't do that and
we never got tracker to equal three,
then we would also enter into
an infinite loop as well.
Have a question?
>> Speaker 4: Yeah, so if tracker reaches
3, we hit the return statement and
we go back up pop stuff up the stack.
Then if callMe gets called again and
tracker hasn't been reset do we just then
have an infinite loop and go forever,
because it's never gonna be equal the 3
again if every time we go through it's
gonna increment again.
>> Bianca: Mm-hm,
how can we fix that?
>> Speaker 4: We could do it greater than
or equal to 3.
>> Bianca: Yeah, we could do that.
Or you can just reset it here.
>> Bianca: 0
>> Bianca: So
then next time we'll just reset it.
However, this is dangerous.
This is why we don't do globals like this
because you can create a race-condition.
Weird things can happen.
So just be careful.
In most scenarios,
you're not gonna be relying on a global
for any kind of loop like this.
Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 5: Can
you do an example where you actually
use the time in the recursion,
how does it work?
>> Bianca: Yeah, sure.
>> Bianca: Let's do one of these guys,
this is fun.
>> Bianca: Okay.
>> Bianca: So we're gonna play our
game.
>> Bianca: We're
going to call our function.
We're gonna put it on to the call stack.
What is arg?
Arg in this case is any time.
>> Bianca: We're
gonna increment our tracker.
This is now one.
This is false.
>> Bianca: What is?
Or actually arg is this case, I'm sorry,
is undefined.
>> Bianca: Right,
because we're not passing
anything right here.
So we start as undefined.
However, the second time we call it,
we give it a value.
But let's put our little line here.
>> Bianca: So arg,
at this point is, let me put in the next
line so you can see it, is anytime.
We're gonna increment tracker.
>> Bianca: Still not three.
Calling it again,
we're going to push it on the stack.
Again this is still anytime.
Increment tracker is now three,
which is our base case.
We're gonna reset tracker
>> Bianca: And
then we're going to return loops + arg,
which is gonna be loops anytime.
Hold on, let's get to the,
so this is where we were.
So let's just pop off properly so
that we can see how it loops through.
I am putting this here from
where we kinda left off.
So, we hit this return.
Actually we didn't do this.
We never get to here,
cuz we get inside of here, we return.
This is what we're returning.
So let's pop this off.
This function is going to be
evaluated to what this returns which,
again, let's put this actual value.
>> Bianca: And
then, so this evaluates to that so
it's essentially saying do that.
And we're gonna return again, so
we pop this off.
>> Bianca: This returns this value.
We pop this off.
This function is just gonna return,
>> Bianca: Down here.
So that's how you can
pass an argument through.
You can also start with
passing one here as well.
But we'll go through more examples.
How do you guys feel about
the Call Stack Game?
>> Bianca: Working for you?
>> Speaker 3: Can you just repeat one more
time why we went from call me
anytime to return call me anytime?
>> Bianca: Sure.
The reason we did that was
because in this case the very
first time we returned,
we returned a value.
However, once we evaluated
the next function on the stack,
it didn't return anything.
It just was calling a function and so
what happens automatically when you
don't have an explicit return statement in
the function, it just returns undefined.
So the subsequent returns up the stack
we're just returning undefined.
And so we were losing our value
that we returned initially.
So that's why whatever this returns,
we want to also return it.
Otherwise it will just return undefined
implicitly.
>> Speaker 4: So
essentially the purpose of this recursion
is to continue doing the loops until
a certain condition is met and
then break out of it and
return that value.
>> Bianca: Yep,
which is what every loop does right?
So recursion is just a super
cool way of looping.
Hate to break it to you,
that's all it really is.
Makes you feel cooler.